---
title: Missing Maps - Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) 
subtitle: Al-Qadarif, Sudan
category: project
layout: project
tags:
  - remote
  - ready
permalink: project/msf-sudan
aoi:
  - north: 128.264484
    south: 128.057910
    east: -3.622438
    west: -3.737522
---

Médecins Sans Frontières is opening a new operation in the city of Bazora in the State of Gedaref, Sudan. MSF's team will need a better map of the settlements and roads in the area in order to find their way in this remote area and reach the vulnerable populations that live there.

MSF's logisticians need a map of the road network around the axis Bazora - Al Qadarif, where their coordination is based. The data contributed will facilitate MSF's team access to the area, save their time and thus improve the services delivered to their beneficiaries.

There is no freely available mapping data available for the province, aside from that which has been already generously contributed by the OSM community until now.

The Missing Maps project aims to map the most vulnerable places in the world (affected by humanitarian crises: disease epidemics, conflict, natural disasters, poverty, environmental crises). Building on HOT's disaster preparedness projects, the Missing Maps tasks facilitate pre-emptive mapping of priority countries to better facilitate disaster response, medical activities and resource allocation when crises occur.

How to contribute
Please join us by by contributing to this [task](http://tasks.hotosm.org/project/1262). You can also host your own Missing Maps mapathon for friends and colleagues. Here's a step-by-step guide and [training materials](http://www.missingmaps.org/contribute/) to walk you through the process.
